Ogre
true neutral
The Ogre council at Verthogt was founded roughly 800 years ago as the Ogre's figure time, their calendar being based on a set of lunar cycles which causes the loss of a few days each year.  Founded by a series of clan elders in an attempt to regulate knowledge and mitigate a peace between the scattered Ogre clans, the council serves as a loose governing body whose primary purpose was to unify the scattered practices of the various clans into a single code to be practiced by the race as a whole.  With the completion of the Kothkagar 634 years ago the council set itself as a governing body and with the practices set forth within began to regulate the Ogre society.
Ogre society does not stand for great an noble things like the other houses do, there is no rank and file, there are no book thump-ers, and there is no single figure with which they can identify.  Instead the Ogres pride themselves on their individual efforts with each family group reporting its actions to the council.  As a whole the Ogres believe in isolation and hold a general state of neutrality with the world as a whole, only joining with the trade alliances for the sake of preventing war with the better armed human nations.  Much like the House of Eson the Ogre clans are united by a single religion though not under a single entity.  Entrance into Ogre clans is purely hereditary and as such it is nearly impossible for a none Ogre to join.

Algid
Lawful neutral
Founded in time immemorial the mighty Algid empire occupies the largest physical area of any of the great house.  The true founder of the Algid empire is shrouded in mystery with many believing it to be the god Nesolis, regardless of the truth of the matter the city of Xou, seat of the Algid Prime sits beneath the Claw of Ice in the heart of the frozen wastes.  The rank of Prime is similar to that of emperor save that the position may be contested by any worthy member of the race, this status is determined by a series of things, primarily strength of sword and socercy save for those who bear the mark of the Shohan or Mirhan, these individuals are exempted from such contest and are not considered members of society as a whole, but instead serve preserve the traditions and understandings of the Algid people.
The Algid empire has no house colors as other nations do, instead they bear forehead tattoos signifing their alliance to a family with the ruling family of Drai being marked by a twelve pointed star.  The empire itself stands for honor and courage rather than the violence and conquest many groups see them as.  Possessing no formal military outside of the Mirhan, who do not answer to the Prime, the Algid nation functions with militia systems under which every member of the nation is taught to fight.  While the primary use of this militant training was raiding the northern kingdoms such practices have fallen off in the wake of the Mad king.  The Algid serve four gods with very little fealty save high holidays and direct intervention. 

Eson
Lawful good
Founded in human calendar year 0 the holy kingdom of man was founded by Eson in an attempt to unify the scattered nomadic tribes against future Algid invasions, this proved instremental in calendar year 20 when the Algid once more invaded nearly forcing the humans into extinction.  With the fall of the blind king's army in the year 68 the church gained control over the kingdom of man and began a long dark age of religious purification resulting in the recession of the northern knights and the formation of the kingdom of Skothgard, the churches reign continued for nearly 850 years until the king Halcanon personally lead the kingdoms armies against the Algid's “Mad king” regaining the public approval and finally resting control of the nation from the faltering church.
The Kingdom founded by Eson stands as the symbol of humanity for the world, knights in shining armor with red tabbards, Priests standing behind pulpits and preaching their god, and rank upon rank of soldier in matching uniform. Those who wear the red and gold of the House itself are typically upstanding citizens, church going folk who turn out for each worship day, and do their part to better society.  Unfortunatly this dedication to society is bound to the conventions which have been passed down through the years, believing in the superiority of their race and religion, this does at times blind them to the differences of other groups and their beliefs.  This tendancy has receded in recent years as the kingdoms open borders have extended to the house itself, opening it to the Quolin, Daurin, Dwarf and the occasional Vithe.  While open to multiple races the house is still strictly bound by its religious ties and requires all its members to follow Ignus.

Skoth
Lawful neutral
Founded in human calendar year 207 by General Feldith Skothrain the kingdom of Skothgard is based out of the Ancient northern court of Eson.  In a fairly bloodless exodus General Skothrain lead many of the loyalists from the kingdom of Eson to the border lands as the church began to truly purify the kingdom.  Believing that the kingdom of Eson had been lead astray by their devotion to an ideal the general set about forming a functional kingdom which served to defend the Lands of man from Algid raids for nearly 700 years until the Algid's “Mad king” circumvented the kingdom down the high road ambushing the southern fringes.
The kingdom of Skothgard stands as a symbol of defiance, its nobles working beside its commoners, its homes filled with swords and pikes, and its cities walled and maned.   Those who wear the blue and silver of Skothgard train their entire lives for their duty, even the most prestigous members gather their soldiers and ride the border lands during during the long winters.  While not believing in the true equality of the Democratic states the members of Skothgard believe they owe a great debt to their citizens realizing that the true measure of their kingdom's success was not in their pockets but in the safety of its members.  While allowing other races to join the house it is very rare to see a non-human in Skothgard colors.  Unlike its southern cousin Skothgard does not hold highly to the worship of Ignus, while still practicing the religion it is rare to see a full church save for an occasion of great importance.
